All right, we are the last day of this
March Madness when it comes to the you
know what what has really royal markets
overall and I think we're ending it with
a bang with this latest Wall Street
Journal report here this morning where
you know President Trump is telling its
aids that he is willing to come out of
this war here even if they don't reopen
the Strait of Hormuz and you know it
seems like at least right now we are
seeing risk assets improve just a bit
here this morning.
>> Yeah, I think it underscores
how headline risk remained remained as
far as markets go and I think certainly
this does provide an exit and whether or
not we actually take that path all the
way down is still unclear. We've been
looking at these ever-changing headlines
and directions and conflicting reports,
conflicting statements.
We've gotten so much used to that over
the last few weeks or so but yes, this
is the latest one that markets are
reacting to given this this this latest
report coming out of the journal here.
Yeah, so certainly you're seeing oil
coming off a little bit here after we
did see you know after that Kuwait oil
tanker that was bombed
in near Dubai. That certainly did lead
to a lot of things getting bit you know
to concerning about maybe things are
winding a little bit and really you are
starting to see more of these sort of
military operations really hit key
infrastructure. You're talking talking
about tankers in the like. So then
again, then you had all the Powell
sounds out too, right? That did actually
calm the bond market of a little bit
here just given the fact that it sounded
a bit transitory-ish. Mhm. His comment
when it came to that sort of inflation
pass-through as well. So there are
silver linings to all this here right
now but yeah, it's all just very fluid
here right now. We ripped up the strip
as you say.
>> Yeah,
extremely fluid
and I think we'll we'll we'll just have
to wait and see what the next few
minutes hold. On top of that, right?
Keep in mind they're still bombing each
other. I think is is is the I think
something that is also
somewhat tethered to actually what's
happening on the ground there. Now, as
far as markets go, we're only down half
of 1% on the benchmark. We are coming
off highs on oil, still up for the day.
The dollar has reversed the early
strength. We're now looking at weakness
in the Bloomberg Dollar Index. How that
shows up across major benchmarks, US
futures, the Nikkei, I believe is now up
after down as much as 2 or 3% at one
point. Flip the page, please. Kospi
Index, Taiwan is coming online. And
interesting because Taiwan is coming in
like after this headline came out, but
also keep in mind that massive drop that
we had overnight in tech stocks.
So, we are opening somewhat better than
what had been the case 30 minutes back
here. Kospi still down though 2.6% and
going into the Chinese open today. 850
futures coming up on your screens.
Also keep in mind when you look at the
bond markets, we are looking at a fifth
straight as of the close yesterday, a
fifth straight day of Treasury China
Treasury futures on the way up. So, the
rally is something to watch. And apart
from that, nothing clear as far as
futures go. So, we are waiting with
bated breath in as far as what the next
few hours might hold here.
Okay. Let's bring in our team to talk us
through all the headlines. Our politics
editor Laura Davison is here with us
along with our Bloomberg Intelligence
analyst Henik Fung on the impact on oil
markets. Laura, I'll start with you. So,
ending military operations before even
the stream from Reuters is open, how
should we interpret that? Uh one
not so generous interpretation is that
Trump is growing bored with this war,
but that is you know, what you know,
some had early on prognosticated. Trump
even addressed that, you know, he in the
early days of March, you know, someone
had had criticized this saying, "Look,
Trump's going to just move away from
this in in a month or so." He said,
"Look, you know, we think this is going
to last 5 to 6 weeks, but I don't get
bored. We can take this much longer."
Now, we're at week five and we're seeing
you know,
him looking for an out particularly with
a major loss which would be if the US
were to step away
from this conflict without some sort of
resolution on the Strait of Hormuz. The
journal journal story suggested from
their reporting that he is just going to
leave that to Gulf allies and to EU
allies to figure out what the next steps
are. That gives Iran a ton of power over
both this conflict and the next steps as
well as over the entire global economy.
Yeah, because they hold the biggest gun.
If they're stepping away that changes
the power dynamics all together.
Meanwhile, we just talked about these
two the latest on the Kuwait tanker that
that got hit early this morning. This is
another example of Iran really flexing
its muscles. This is now the second in
two or three days of them having really
precise targeting hitting that US that
big jet that is sort of a flying command
center a couple days ago now hitting
this this tanker you know in in Dubai.
It's it's it's off the shore a little
bit so it's not you know directly in the
marina but that's a clear warning signal
that look you know we have the ability
to to target some of these assets and
and we're going to use that capability
which really runs in contrast to what
we've been hearing from from the
Pentagon and the US side that that
Iran's military capabilities are
completely obliterated. They've still
been able to to really attack make some
attacks that have really riled markets
and and and caused a lot of concern.
Henig, I I mean
the fact that you know the US might pull
out this war without reopening the
Strait of Hormuz. Does that just keep
oil markets elevated for for you know a
prolonged period?
Well, I think geopolitics will become
the key theme for this year. So
you know
with or without any any you know
other development, I think oil price
will still be staying at high level cuz
I mean the market is
trying to price in
this risk in form of high risk premium
and from the recent events like the you
know
the Houthis attack against Israel and
also
this morning's Dubai oil tanker fire. I
think the the market is trying to you
know, price in this uncertainty. And
this is not just affecting the
short-term supply-demand outlook. It's
more, you know, on the long-term, you
know, how did we this will shift the,
you know, the demand in terms of the SPR
bill and also how this quicken other
energy
usage. We actually want to get your
thoughts on if we go down that route
that the Red Sea now becomes more
involved with the Houthis in a moment.
But Laura, just on that story that we
understand the Iranians
and the Houthis are now looking to
escalate this into the Red Sea. What do
we know exactly about and we were there
was some speculation around this 24
hours ago, but what do we know now 24
hours on? So it's really Iran that's
driving the the boat or the ship here
pushing the Houthis to to essentially
kind of blockade the Red Sea. That would
also just I mean kind of you really get
to a game of traffic jam in the region
there on the waterways. Bloomberg
Economics estimates this would push oil
to about $140 a barrel. So again, a
really a really big and significant
impact just as there's almost no way to
to move throughout the region safely.
However, we have this reporting also
suggests that there's a little bit of
division among the Houthis about how
boldly they want to play, how much of an
impact they want to have. So there's
still a degree of uncertainty about
whether this would be sort of a full
closure and kind of what their
capabilities are, you know, different
from what we've seen in the Strait of
Hormuz of an essentially an entirely
blockade. Yeah. And and quantify that
for us in terms of because this this
this was the plan or this is the plan B.
The diversion into the Red Sea. So what
happens if that becomes largely closed
out closed off? I mean, if both
waterways are closed down, I mean, they
account for over 20% of the global
oil export volume. So they can, you
know, send oil prices to 150, 160 in a
day or two.
But I don't see that situation that bad
yet because, you know, I think they're
just
showing that they have the military
capability of you know telling the world
that they can control
the area they can hit Israel they can
hit any targets in
Red Sea they can if they want they can
create a massive energy supplies shock
to you know send energy prices high
to push push up you know inflation. So
this is something they want and I think
Iran knows real well that if oil prices
going up to 150 160 that's not going to
do
anyone good for that because demand
destruction is going to come down. So
what what I think they would do is that
they want to keep oil price at 100 120
level
they can get some pretty good you know
oil revenue at the same time they can
put pressure on US in gas price. And
some of the examples is like over
the past few weeks they let the China
linked vessels pass through the Strait
of Hormuz. They let the Pakistan linked
vessels passing through.
So I think they they will still let the
oil flow going out you know from the
region but they just want to limit that
and to keep price high.
So if this potential does happen right
the fact that the US pulls out I mean is
it down to Iran and Israel to really
kind of
in in some ways battle this out
how does that change the whole game in
some ways? You know it it definitely
strengthens Iran's hand both
rhetorically because they were able to
essentially fight off the United States
and have them walk away with a major
loss plus you know the capability that
the US brings to the table you know
Israel has a very strong military
however it could sort of the the silver
lining here if if markets are looking
for one is that this could create an
opening for other Gulf allies or the
Europeans to get more involved. They've
been really really reticent to they
don't really want to play by Trump's
rules. He's been making a lot of demands
that they have just completely rebuffed.
You know if the if the power dynamic
shift here and as this goes on longer
and and the and the risk go higher
there's there's a potential for for sort
of a different coalition to form.
All right Laura thank you Laura Davison
and Hannah from there joining us from
Bloomberg Intelligence.
Of course, of what to expect here and
and as we've been tracking, of course,
this latest headline from The Wall
Street Journal
>> Yeah. about what the US is thinking
about whether it's exiting this war
without reopening the Strait of Hormuz.
I will be digging into the impact of the
conflict with all of our guests here
this morning. Of course, we'll start
with Franklin Templeton's head of global
index portfolio management. Adina Tai
joins us in just a moment. Plus,
SocGen's global chief economist Wei Yao
joins us a little bit later on with
their outlook outlook on inflation and
growth. And we're kind of now in the
open of trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
Hong Kong. This is the China show.
Uh right. Uh just an update of the
breaking news and hence why US futures
have changed their course. This Journal
uh headline that just crossed uh we're
just trying to figure out as well.
Markets are trying to figure out
globally
um whether or not this does present the
most feasible
off-ramp.
Uh with all that being said, um it is
somewhat of a confusing end to what's
really been a manic month, and it's
really been a terrible month for risk
assets. In fact, when you look at
how we've done on global equities this
month alone, it's the single biggest
month in terms of value destruction on
record. Close to 12 trillion in market
caps wiped out
uh across our benchmarks of market cap
at Bloomberg globally. And as you can
see here today, we've now erased if not
more gains for most asset classes for
the year. And this has taken us back
back a few months in terms of price
here. I mean, the fact that this is even
bigger than what we saw during the
Russian invasion of Ukraine back in
2022, even bigger than what we saw in
COVID of 2020. I mean, it certainly does
show uh really what we've seen is that,
you know, are we still at this point and
some people are still wondering are we
still underpricing Yeah. the really the
risks to not just supply, but also
potentially the demand destruction that
could take away given the fact that even
if we see a President Trump saying, you
know, I'm done even without the
reopening of straight up war moves,
you're still talking about energy
infrastructure, oil infrastructure that
has to be repaired that could take
months even years.
Um so I think the longer term
implications are certainly the one thing
that we have to really deal with here
and what does that mean for you know,
investors and portfolio construction?
Yeah, and in fact that's let's let's get
the thoughts right now of Dina Tang.
She's with us right now. She's head of
global index portfolio management at
Franklin Templeton. Dina, good morning
and say a pleasure to to have you join
us right now.
It I'm not sure what kind of month
you've had. It's really been manic
across
most of us for here here here in the
Asia Pacific here looking at these
markets, but
so to tell us
the month that we've had in terms of
market moves and value destruction is is
there a dip you are willing to buy at
this point? What would you buy? What
would you stay away from?
I think the way investors should look at
it is looking at the long term, right?
And also at the horizon. So you
mentioned the month, but if you look at
the year-to-date, there are some markets
that are still posting positive number
for the year-to-date number. So I think
it's about where the war will
potentially end and also how each of the
different asset classes as well as
specific country or positioning. Because
it's not impacting everyone the same way
and I think it shows that
diversification really pays. On top of
that, strategic planning for each of the
country or who can
best plan with the different
contingency, you can see that in their
differentiated performance.
So so which are those sort of
you know, markets and and sectors that
you look at, right? If it's not going to
be, you know, single haven sort of
hedging, what what are sort of the the
the the beneficiaries of this then?
Yeah, so I think the way to look at it
is looking at the specific countries.
So, if you look at China, for example,
they are less impacted in this, and part
of that is because of their strategic
diversification of their energy
supplies, both into different location,
but also into renewable energy. They
also have a huge stockpiles that have
strategically been put together, and I
think people realize now the dependence
of oil may not be the best bet, and
you've seen the data now that
electrification could actually be
cheaper. And China is one where you can
potentially play in that sector, not
only for their own country and their own
economy, but also for
uh the rest of the region, other outside
of Asia, as well as in Africa.
Okay. Um so, well, again, sorry, to
circle back to my initial question, what
do I buy then?
Yeah, so I think for investors to look
at is uh trying to
di- disaggregate the exposure globally,
right? So, if you look at specific If
you can go with sectors, you can also go
with single countries. So, if you
disaggregate international market and
see how they play, you can look at
markets such as China, you can look at
Taiwan, you can also look at Brazil as a
potential diversification to your
typical allocation. So, on top of that,
if you look even more uh at the top
line, uh you can also look at the
correlation across all the assets,
because in periods of volatility, not
only you zero in on the specific asset
uh specific asset that has lower
volatility, but you also look for
uncorrelate asset. And if you look
across different markets uh on the
equity, that level of correlation
actually has decreased, which is a good
news for investors to be able to get the
pieces and uh
create a portfolio that is uh
diversified but less correlated. And I
think that's where ETF come into play,
right? There's a lot of ETFs out there
from single country ETF to income tilted
ETF, uh but investors can see and be
able to allocate very quickly to get the
targeted exposure, but also using it as
part of the whole portfolio construction
to balance correlation and liquidity as
well as the the overall risk and return
from the overall portfolio.
Dina, you mentioned something about AI
as the sort of offset to the
fragmentation of global trade. I was
going to get your take on that because
it seems like the narrative around AI is
ever changing by the day. One day it's
the software companies and and then and
really being the disruptions and the and
being disrupted. Another day it's it's
memory chips that we saw overnight in
the US where now there's concerns about
excess capacity, there's concerns about
uh capex fatigue. What are some of the
AI narratives that we should be focusing
on for 2026 now?
I think in a AI story, it's important to
understand the different layers of AI.
Uh
when people talk about the buildings and
the infrastructure, that's the
semiconductor chip that powers that,
that's the electrification to have the
gigafactory. Uh those are investments
that they are all making right now. Now
there's debate about whether that's over
a trillion or some other numbers, but
they're all making that investment. And
then And second layer is even more
important because that's like where the
intelligence are being built. And then
if you go to the top layer, it's actual
application. So you're not limited to
just the technology itself, but it's
actual business implementation on how AI
is powering the economy and the specific
companies that are using it in order to
create a real efficiency and that will
translate into profitability. So at the
end of the day, the number will speak
for itself. But for investor, it is true
there is different narrative, but one
thing for sure, everything has to start
from the building blocks and then
but each of that realizing where it fits
and where the opportunities are.
Dina, thank you. Dina Ting there, head
of global index portfolio management at
Franklin Templeton. Uh your pre-market
for Hong Kong is up now. We're taking a
look at when it comes to how the Hang
Seng is doing. We actually are seeing
some positivity here. So we're up about
a third of 1% here. Futures are all
punching just slightly higher here uh
after that Wall Street Journal report
that President Trump telling his aides
that he may be open to ending this war
without reopening the Strait of Hormuz.
You are seeing here a bit of reversal
here in just the last hour or so when it
comes to risk assets. Uh there, equities
now finding a floor. This is Bloomberg.
Okay.
There There you go.
Um Brent prices, oil prices are coming
off their highs quite visibly and it's
also the case when you look at the US
dollar, which I guess just underscores
somewhat return of
uh risk appetite going into this Chinese
open. In fact, you have US futures,
European futures. Asia is now, if I'm
not mistaken, should be up or just
slightly lower for the day
uh going into the open today. Yeah,
there we go. So we're now down just 3/10
of 1%. If you look at this an hour back
that with would have all been completely
red
on your screen. So this journal reports
that the US president is willing
to end the war without reopening the
straight is I guess somewhat food for
thought, but it is something that
markets are
running with currently. Let's see of
course whether or not that is the the
route they eventually take.
>> Yeah, this could be the sort of
short-term knee-jerk reaction. We'll
see, right? We still have to deal with
the social disruption concerns in the
longer term. But at least for now it
seems like there is at least a little
bit more urgency from from the US side
to end this war. But what does this mean
for when it comes to Iran and you know,
their their ability and leverage to
really control this vital waterway and
what this means for the global economy
certainly is going to be a big question
there, too. It really is. You know, just
keep in mind we're also in the thick of
earning season and I think of some of
the stocks we're tracking today
separately would be Moutai. I think one
of the names to watch going into the
the open later on. I think they raised
prices, too. Retail prices of their
flagship liquor for the first time in 3
years.
>> Moutai Moutai Moutai for the first
>> So positive surprise as some analysts
have said it.
>> Yeah, okay. Well, the the sort of
slightly on the lighter side comedic
juxtaposition for that is fuel prices
are have really seen a bit of upside of
late. If you know, you know, if you
tasted that. Fantastic by the way, but
yes, it's it's it's not for the Hey. the
sensitive at heart. With these markets
and the volatility. Okay. Well, speaking
of oil coming up on your screens every
shortly. And of course we also forgot it
is PMI day. So that's going to come out
of course in the next few minutes. So
keep an eye on that apart from
everything else that we're talking
about. We're still watching these
headlines. Yeah, it's not just the oil
story and you know, it's also the tech
story, right? I mean it it was supposed
to be a double whammy for Asia today
given the fact that you know, you had
Micron falls of double digits overnight
with not really a clear trigger really
the memory names. So certainly we'll
have much more to talk about here as
well. We got PMI's Dave Mencher here
just about 4 minutes time in the open is
coming up next. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China show. We're counting down to the
open at markets and we are actually on
better footing than we were 30 minutes
back compared to that point, better than
30 minutes beyond that point. Um yeah,
uh this this Wall Street Journal reports
of the US president willing to end the
war on certain conditions is really
something that markets are latching onto
currently. Still, I think the
superlatives are still important to note
about what what craziness we've seen
this March, right? When you're talking
about, you know, the the biggest wipeout
in global stocks ever uh for for March
and really kind of surpasses what we saw
with COVID, surpasses what we saw uh
with the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
That certainly does tell you something
about the demand or at least at least
the risk sentiment and really the
concerns about stagflation are are
certainly uh there. But then again, you
had
Jerome Powell also talking about, "Look,
it might be transitory, right? They're
they're not too worried just yet." So,
that at least soothed some of the bond
traders' concerns uh overnight. But
certainly, you know, this Wall Street
Journal report is what's dominating the
the headlines here this morning about,
you know, President Trump seems to want
to really end this war even if it means
the Strait of Hormuz is still shut. Uh
what does that mean? Well, we do see oil
coming off a little bit as well and
Shanghai crude futures are falling what
we saw with Brent and WTI were lower by
about uh 1% here as well. Risks when it
comes to I mean, I was actually saying
risk assets are doing a little bit
better, but China has been actually
pretty flat uh given that, you know,
usually on down days China is relatively
looking better. I think right now we're
pretty just subdued right now. Uh we're
watching very much the chip space given
what we've been seeing. It seems like
that tech sell-off that we saw overnight
is coming down to Asia is has come to
China as well. Caber Con Tech is just
slightly lower. Uh but interesting to
note about Midea Group as well. Earnings
did come in line with estimates
according to Morgan Stanley. And they're
also pivoting away from home appliances
given the fact that, you know, they're
going to be seeing rising material costs
and the like. And into more tech. Uh
it's a stock is up some 4% here as well.
And we're watching Kweichow Moutai.
There you go. 3.8% Uh so there's reports
that they've hiked their retail prices
for their flagship liquors. Uh first
time in 3 years. So, pretty positive
surprise there as well. So, uh drink up
there today. Up 4% for Kweichow. Let's
look at the boards and see what Hong
Kong is doing because there is that tech
story certainly that could derail. But
there again, there you go. HS Tech,
we're actually doing okay. We're up
about 7/10 of 1%. What's driving that is
Tencent, Alibaba, Baidu are all seeing
gains of 1%. Xiaomi is the exception
here today. We have those PMI numbers
just dropping our terminals here right
now. And better than expected for March.
Yes, both on the manufacturing and the
non-manufacturing
um reads here coming through as well.
So, Mar- Mar- March manufacturing coming
in 50.4. Estimates were for 50.1.
The non-manufacturing gauge coming in
above that 50 threshold at 50.1. Just
barely, but the estimates were just
barely below that at 49 uh at 49.9. I'm
just looking at what that 50.4 actually
looks like in terms of a trend. And yes,
a 50.4 actually would be the highest
PMI print
going back about 12 months ago. There we
go. So, 50.4 is quite something. And you
know, we were talking about this on
Monday, right? We were going to get a
slew of global PMIs this week. And we
were wondering whether this is going to
be it was going to reflect initially the
uh
changing sentiment around the war among
manufacturers or supply chain managers,
what have you? But certainly with this,
it doesn't seem Well, at least
specifically in China's case doesn't
seem to be the case. Yeah, maybe March
is where you start to see, right? The
The The people might be responding to
what we're seeing with the you know, the
Iran situation. It seems like right now,
you're still seeing expansion when it
comes to manufacturing and
non-manufacturing.
Uh what does this mean for the rest of
the world? Of course, let's bring in Wei
Yao, global chief economist at APAC at
Societe Generale.
How are you assessing the pass-through
inflation right now from international
to domestic prices? And then what really
Asian economies have been doing to try
to cushion the impact right now? I think
the China PMIs we just got, you know,
basically show the point that the global
economy, US, Europe, Asia all have had a
resilience coming to this crisis, right?
It was very much supported by the
AI-driven trade. That was a very big big
driver and the
kind of push.
So, now the question is, you know, how
big is the shock can get to derail this
momentum? So, we have some buffer, but
this buffer is not unlimited. I think
China is definitely in a much more
resilient place, right? Say they have
the SPR, they have, you know, the they
have their petrochemical that can run on
coal. This sets China in a bit different
place from the rest of Asia. I think
Asia definitely is more fragile in
fragile in this situation. But I would
be watching most closely looking at
Korea and Taiwan because they're at the
center of this AI trade. Whether their
momentum, their production, their
manufacturing will be affected by this
um oil shock actually will mean a lot
for the global cycle.
I mean, so I mean, the way you phrase
that then I think the follow-up there
would be how useful then would be March
data
to extrapolate how we would do in April.
In other words, like is this somewhat
still valuable information right now how
we did before the war? Like what what Is
there anything that you can predict now
with a degree of confidence?
>> Okay. Uh the degree of confidence is low
because the uncertainty level is very
very high, right? Especially at this
moment.
>> Right. This is I I think, you know,
we're the fifth week into this war.
We're getting to the most dangerous and
most confusing time. It's dangerous
because any further escalation will
bring a lot more lasting, permanent
physical damage, right? It's not just
disruption anymore.
It's confusing because we're getting
signals on on all kinds of scenario,
right? So, right now macro forecasting
is impossible essentially. But I think
the data that that that came out in
March from from March still still
valuable in the sense it tells a lot
about the starting condition, right? So,
for the growth we have resilience, but
for inflation
that also means, you know, the central
bank indeed have reason to be very
careful with inflation because, you
know, the growth was on the upward
momentum trajectory. The excess capacity
is actually less, right? So, they need
to be more careful with inflation risk.
But can they actually hike rates? If
there is if there is a damage
destruction possibility.
>> That's central bank's job, right? Their
job is to manage inflation. But I I
guess I think
>> inflation or inflation expectations?
Because there seems to be a difference
between
>> right? Once you have inflation
expectation it gets more entrenched,
then you get inflation. So,
unfortunately, I think, you know,
central banks they're they're
institution run by human. So, they look
at the recent history. And the recent
history is that they were too late in
the after the Russia-Ukraine war in
containing inflation, right? So, you do
have these institutions now probably
have the tendency to care more about
inflation in the near term. Mhm. Yeah.
Uh the let's I want to talk more about
the the Asia Pacific. Then we can talk
about this relative resilience that
China is exuding.
So, you markets like Korea, Taiwan, you
mentioned that some economies in South
Asia, Southeast Asia.
>> What kind of demand destruction
realistically do you think we are we are
seeing and how do we
how do we look at that risk without
you know, without throwing the baby out
with the bathwater. In other words, you
know,
without pushing the panic button. What
is a realistic assessment right now of
how the those economies will likely fare
over the next 3 months?
>> Yeah.
So,
there is a there is a relatively simple
framework to look at it, right? Is that
the economy need to consume certain
energy to produce certain output, right?
For the intensity.
Then, the the problem now is not just
oil prices are more expensive, right?
If you can buy
if you can pay for that price, so you
can limit the demand destruction. That's
actually less
less problematic or less there is there
is certain less less demand destruction
you can have.
The the challenge for these countries
that doesn't really have the fiscal
power or just, you know, income to do
that,
then they will be forced to do demand
destruction. Then it's no no longer
about elasticity question. They just
have to do it, right? What I mean by
that is that while Europe, for example,
in Asia, right? I I I mentioned earlier
that Korea town watch very closely, but
at the end of the day, I think they're
able to pay for this price. Mhm. Whereas
some other countries, especially in the
South Asia, you know, I'm not talking
about India, some even, you know, poorer
country, right? Pakistan or Bangladesh,
they essentially won't have any choice.
So, yeah, so the the distribution of the
burden will be very uneven, essentially.
Yeah.
We talked about China being somewhat
insulated. They have cheap energy
diversified
>> They have diversified.
Um and maybe this is the inflation that
they need. But but is this the inflation
the good inflation that China had needs?
I I wouldn't really say it's the
inflation they need
cuz I I understand how the
there is certain way to look at it to
say, "Okay, China needs some external
factor to to lift it out of deflation,
right? Like Japan, right?" So, the the
problem is is the Japan situation was
all stars were aligned. There was
demand. There was fiscal. There was
monetary, right? There were is tight
labor market. Then there is the external
shock. Then you can get out of deflation
for good. Whereas China right now Mhm.
all all these conditions, what do you
have? External factor only, right? Okay,
we're getting a little bit better
demand. That's what we see in PMI. A
little bit better fiscal.
Bit more monetary, but you know, at the
day, you still need a more demand-driven
inflation, more kind of labor market
wage dynamics to to be sustainable. So,
yeah.
You know, that's the strange thing when
you look at how the
what's caused inflation to come back in
the last 5 10 years. It's not what you
would have expected, right? Yeah, yeah,
the pandemic. Yeah, this massive fiscal
package out of the US. In Japan's case,
we were waiting for 15 years and
suddenly it showed up now in the form.
So, so I guess my question is
we were having problems bringing
inflation back below target going into
this war. And now we have this.
Does this exacerbate the inflation
probably moving moving forward? How do
we need to be looking at rates 24 12 24
months down the road?
>> Yeah, for the developed market, there is
definitely this problem, right? So,
talking about the starting condition,
right? The the starting condition in the
US is as you pointed out, the inflation
is not back below target. The starting
condition Europe is that the labor
market is at the tightest level in many
many years. And starting point in Japan
is yeah, it's getting out of deflation
and entering very
seemingly very sustained reflation
phase. So, so yeah, so that's the
inflation risk that the central bank
cannot ignore even though it will hurt
economy
if they tighten, but they they simply I
don't think they have a choice. The The
other challenge is also that the fiscal
scope is more constrained now compared
to,
you know, the 2021. Mhm. Um so yeah, so
I I think the market in a way
is is moving the direction of worrying
about stagflation. That's not wrong, but
I do think at this moment we we still
need to see how this will turns out
because, yeah, some expectations bit
excessive. So just how to go so, you
know, the AI sort of trade is is what's
offsetting what we're seeing global
trade.
But do you think this could also derail
the whole AI boom as well? I know you
said you're focusing on the data from
Taiwan and Korea the next few weeks and
months. Yeah, it it that is a risk at
this moment. I
I don't see this as a central scenario.
I think AI boom can survive it. Um
because at the end of the day it is
about the the purchasing power, right?
The ability what the the financial
capability to spend more money on on
this long-term project, right? So at
this moment you look at the big
companies in the US they are the drivers
of the whole thing, you know, they they
still have, you know,
money to spend and they still want to do
it. China wants to do it. Everyone still
wants to do it. So um so yeah, so it it
it has some resilience in terms of the
same momentum.
Let's let's end in somewhat something
more positive. Uh how are you doing on
your forecasts, growth and inflation?
That's more positive.
>> Is that Is that What I like the depends
on what No, I I I just I just think, you
know, in in this kind of scenario we
have to admit that, you know, we're
we're faced with uncertainty, right? So
So I, you know, we we have to provide
that forecast, but I'm more thinking in
terms of distribution of outcome.
And at this moment it's very scattered,
it's very polarized.
>> Mhm.
So we just have to be humble. Mhm. Okay.
That's a good starting point for many
things. But yeah, thank you so much. Uh
global chief economist there for uh uh
at SoftBank. Okay, an update here on the
Kuwaiti oil tanker which I think just
after midnight local time was hit about
30 nautical miles northwest of Dubai. So
the fire has now been extinguished. It's
based on this
post ex post from the media office in
Abu Dhabi.
>> Yeah, and this was a direct hit as as
what we had earlier reported from Iran.
So certainly now that seems to be that
situation is stabilized just a bit here
according to what we're hearing from
Dubai. But then again, markets seem to
have moved on from this story now. We
thought this was going to be probably
our top thing to talk about, but now
this Wall Street Journal report seems to
be at least helping out when it comes to
you know, maybe you know, markets are
pricing in the possibility that this war
could be over soon. See how US futures
and Nasdaq futures are looking at right.
We're up and punching close to 1% right
now. This is Bloomberg.
All right, we're checking when it comes
to Asian markets here today and we're
doing a little bit better here. We're
coming off some of the initial lows in
the sessions there. We're up now in
Japan by about a third of 1%. Kospi is
still lower, but we have seen things
improve just a little bit in terms of
sentiment. Asian tech is also up as well
just given what we heard from this Wall
Street Journal headline from President
Trump here. Maybe looking to end this
war even if the Strait of Hormuz remains
effectively shut here right now. But
yes, you know, what we've been focusing
on has been of course that tech story
today which you know, was pretty ugly
overnight. It really was. I think when
you look at the sell off across I think
Micron took a substantial hit among its
just the other peers as well on the
Philly Semiconductor Index. In fact,
just when you look at some of how
they've been doing, massive price
reduction overnight. So this the
implications really of this Turbo Quant
out of Google and investors are
assessing the impact of that and what
that really means. Let's bring in Belle
who is here on set to talk us through
this. Yeah, so what are we seeing in the
Asia Pacific and how do we look at this
this new development out of Google?
Yeah, it's an interesting one because
actually I wasn't expecting tech stocks
to have fed so poorly in the US
overnight just given the moves that we
had in rates and and you know changing
expectations around the Fed but it
really was a quite a significant
sell-off and and it does seem that
investors are still really trying to
come to terms with exactly the
implications of Google's Turbo Quant
that was actually published at the end
of last year but only started being
publicized last week and so that's why
it's sort of been this sort of delay. I
think just to get back into the
technical details of it there are a lot
of them but at a headline level
right now a major issue that we have in
AI generally is just how much memory is
needed for the for the LLMs to function
essentially. So every time you type
something into a model it has to have a
lot of recall especially if you're
trying to get it to to go through big
documents or to retain a long
conversation and so that takes up a lot
of memory.
And so what Turbo Quant manages to do is
to significantly reduce the amount of
memory that's needed. They're saying by
a factor of six.
But also maintain the same level of
performance. And so investors overnight
seem to have been thinking which type of
memory is going to be most affected here
because last week we were talking about
the HBM story being more affected but
overnight it's sort of there's a
changing assessment. Actually it's flash
memory which is more of the short-term
recall and storage that could actually
really be in the firing line and so saw
some of those names that are sensitive
to that sector in particular really
bearing the brunt of it. Yeah but but
this is really just research stage right
now. Yes it could have profound
implications but it hasn't been deployed
widely just yet. So yeah just traders
just again still trying to come to terms
with it. Yeah, if you take a look at
what who might be impacted the most, I
mean, Kioxia in Japan,
you mentioned is particularly
vulnerable, but this has been a darling
among many investors this stock of late.
>> Yeah, it's it's an interesting story.
Yeah, Kioxia is is
I mean, it we've seen a huge amount of
interest in this company from hedge
funds and also from from day traders as
well. A lot of it is actually just on
you know, just like single day turnover
of the stock. And when you compare it
against the peers in Japan, it's it's
it's way at a record in terms of the
amount of interest in it.
One of the reasons that that people are
so enthusiastic about it is just because
they see huge amount of earnings growth.
And yes, because it has had that AI
story that's really underpinned it. You
can see here first three months of this
year, around 36
trillion yen of of turnover versus some
of its peers in the tech space in China.
So, just just to reiterate, I mean,
people are saying that even with this
concern
now around Turbo Quant, the outlook for
the stock is still strong. But just when
you've got that amount of interest in it
as well, volatility is likely to remain
elevated.
All right, Belle Hannibal Bloomberg Tech
correspondent there for Asia. Of course,
we'll be talking not just the tech
space, but we're moving on to talk a
little bit more about earnings as well.
We're sticking into biopharma and the
like here. CanSino's chairman and CEO
Xiao Feng You he's going to be joining
us later on in the 10 hour. We'll also
be talking tech and AI with 01.ai CEO
Kai Fu Lee on the latest disruptions
he's seeing in the sector. Those
exclusive interviews coming up at the
times on your screen.
Well, HSBC CEO Georgia Hederer says he
has been ruthless about killing
complexity as he pushes us an AI-fueled
overhaul. He told us the use of the
technology is not optional and explained
why learning AI skills will be crucial
for banking professionals.
We now rolled to 170,000
of our colleagues internal productivity
tools that can materially improve their
capabilities of reading documents,
reading emails, writing documents,
emails, querying, challenging The dream.
170,000
of our employees. I mean, soon soon all
the way to the 200 plus thousand
employees. But for the moment, that's in
the rollout phase. We've already reached
170,000. Of course, I will be monitoring
usage. I'll be monitoring super usage.
Those will be the most, um,
you know, kind of influencing among
their colleagues to drive the
utilization. But utilization is not
optional because that's how people
remain very relevant in the future
workforce five years down the road. But
we're using GenAI in in wealth. We're
using GenAI in markets. We're using
GenAI in contact centers. We're using
uh GenAI, of course, in technology. Now,
30,000 of our technologists, engineers
are enabled with GenAI.
The speed at which we're able to patch
for, say, uh code uh weaknesses or uh
kind of vulnerabilities is 10 times
faster already now with coding
assistance than it was the case last
year.
10 times. We're not talking
>> In 12 months.
>> In 12 months. We're not talking We're
not talking some productivity in five
years. We're talking productivity
already here. We're already 10 times
faster at able at identifying and and
patching some of these vulnerabilities
in our code. This is like This is a huge
transformation. So, you can imagine how
important it is.
Now, I go back to the first part of your
question, Francine, is what are the
skills that are needed for for banks? I
I say there is no one particular skill
that's going to be critical, but it is
going to be the ability to learn.
Because you can come in the bank coming
from an engineering background, from a
technology background, from an
accounting background, from a finance
and economics background. You can even
come into a bank somewhat from, you
know, from a you know, kind of
you know, different field than directly
related to banking. But once you're in
the bank,
your career, the customer's expectation
are such that you're going to have to
continuously learn. And if you think you
know it all, then there is no place for
the for those,
you know, in the in a in an evolving
landscape. It's very important to
continuously be ready to learn and put
in the hours and the effort to learn
something new, a new skill, an
additional skill. Today, the most
important learning capability is how to
best embrace GenAI and innovation in
general.
Yeah, there you go. The CEO of HSBC,
Georges Elhedery, with of course our
colleague Francine Lacqua there at
Bloomberg Leaders with Francine Lacqua.
The full version, wherever you can get
of course your favorite podcasts. You
can check that full uh conversation out.
Right. Um and just a brief look at these
markets. So, we're doing better. Uh in
fact, we're now up across some. The
Kospi's continuing to sort of ease out
of that big hole that it dug itself in
uh in the early goings. As with As with
Taiwan, I guess it also helps that the
PMI numbers coming out of China were
surprisingly good. Uh it really beat
estimates. In fact, it came in at the
highest level in about a year or so on
manufacturing uh PMI. Yeah, as Sok Chen
said, right? We came into this Iran
situation uh with resilience. And so,
there is that bit of cushion here uh and
for the months and and weeks to come
here. But we'll have plenty more coming
up. This is Bloomberg.
>> The degree of confidence is low because
the uncertainty level is very very high,
right? Especially at this moment.
>> Right. This is I I think, you know,
we're the fifth week into this war.
We're getting to uh the most dangerous
and most confusing time. It's dangerous
because any further escalation will
bring a lot more lasting permanent
physical damage.
>> Right. It's not disruption anymore.
It's confusing because we're getting
signals on on all kinds of scenario,
right? So, right now macro forecasting
is impossible essentially.
Macro forecasting is impossible
according to Suk Jin's way out there.
Yeah, speaking to us earlier and
basically saying it's time to be really
humble
at times like this given that the
uncertainty out there, right? Right now
at least today we're taking uh these
headlines from The Wall Street Journal
as, you know, a good positive sign that
maybe President Trump is willing to end
this war even if it means not reopening
the Strait of Hormuz. But we are already
coming off some of that little bit of
momentum here already here in Hong Kong,
Dave. Yeah, we are and I think we we
just keep
I think we have to keep going back to
Um and I think the concept changes the
longer we wait, but we have to keep
going back to how do we how does the
economy look if it ended tomorrow? And
you have to keep asking yourselves that
every day. And the longer that gets,
right, the bigger the damage, the bigger
the damage to infrastructure you'll get.
Um and I think for Southeast Asia and
South Asia, right, you are literally
getting uh people getting out of their
house less. You have mall hours getting
shortened. You have um work from home
days at government. And that's going to
eat into output for for March and the
first quarter, right? So, like these
forecasts are likely going to come down
uh before things get better.
>> As we all mentioned from Suk Jin, right?
It it's going to differ the central bank
reaction functions because of that,
right? Maybe larger economies like the
Japans, the South Koreas, the
Australias, they they have the ability,
they have the reserves, even China,
right? To to really weather and cushion
that impact and and really kind of try
to cushion the pass-through from
inflation. When you have smaller
economies that as you mentioned, right?
Are either lining up for fuel or telling
people to limit mobility and the like, I
mean that you know, maybe rate hikes are
the only sort of option that they have,
even if it means that this could really
lead to a lot of demand destruction out
there. And it's not those economies and
countries war, but they're paying the
most cost on this, right? So I think
what we are
spot on. What we are saying, it's really
the poor that's bearing the brunt of
this.
Um, and I think we were having this
conversation with the guest yesterday
and you know, what does it mean in terms
of the political capital
if there is something that we can talk
about, of course, at this point of the
White House, you know, when you look
across
the EM world and I think, you know, we
have a date, right? For the the Trump-Xi
summit
in about what is it, 6 weeks from now?
Like you know, and to what extent is
there still capital there to go, here's
something that we needed to do in the
Middle East. We can debate on the
reasons for that, but here's the price,
here's the bill Yeah. that everyone
needs to split, right? At the end at the
end of that meal. But anyway, that's
just getting into
uh, the complexities of things. Uh, the
the point Yvonne and I were making too,
like the headline risk across these
markets, right? When you look at how oil
prices open higher, now lower and we are
starting to come off lows of the day.
Dollar is similar story.
Stocks are doing much better, although
we are also coming off the highs of the
day as far as some of the benchmarks are
concerned. US futures coming up. To the
right side, you have MSCI Asia Pacific.
Um, so it's really headline driven and
where we are here and these I think
there are two narratives right now when
it comes to what's going on there
in in in the Middle East. Yeah, first
it's of course what the Wall Street
Journal's reporting of what President
Trump is telling his aides. And then
there's of course what happened a few
hours ago, which was Iran striking this
Kuwait oil tanker
in near Dubai. So, let's let's go
straight to Dubai there and bring in our
Horizons Middle East and Africa anchor
Joumana Bercetzi. Joumana, it seems like
markets are more focused on this Wall
Street Journal report for now. Tell us
what this means. That that what what
President Trump wants, which is exiting
this war without reopening the Strait of
Hormuz.
Well, that's exactly it. And to be
honest, in the last 24 hours he's spoken
to many journalists and seems to be
throwing out a lot of options,
essentially seeing what sticks here. But
the latest headlines across a couple of
hours ago came from the Wall Street
Journal, where he told his aides that
he's considering
wrapping up the war without fully
getting to a resolution on the Strait of
Hormuz and perhaps leaving it to a
broader
diplomatic effort, joint the US
alongside other allies to come up with a
solution there. And yesterday was
interesting that Secretary of State
Marco Rubio once again spelled out the
military objectives of the war in terms
of their nuclear objectives, the
military objectives, the missiles, the
funding of the proxies, which are very
similar to those negotiating terms that
they had set out even before the war
started. Notably, and many people picked
up on this, the reopening of the Strait
was not included in those list of
objectives. And I think perhaps there is
an understanding now from the White
House administration that you might have
to separate the two. You have what
you're trying to achieve with these
joint US-Israeli military operations,
and certainly they're framing it as
having been very successful so far. Even
President Trump over the weekend said
they've managed to strike 10,000 11,000
targets. They've got about 3,000 targets
to go. Whereas as it pertains the
Strait, and clearly this is becoming a
new sticking point. Um there is a a
realization that perhaps the US can't
forcefully do this alone. If they do
militarily, it's extremely risky that it
be exposing these Marines to an ordinate
amount of risk. Uh and at the same time,
because of its importance globally to
the rest of the world, he seems to think
that other nations will be willing to
participate in some form of a coalition
to open it up diplomatically. But I will
just say this would be very difficult to
sell and not least because you have the
likes of many Arab states, including the
likes of UAE, uh
likening what Iran is doing to the
Strait of Hormuz as economic terrorism.
It is very unlikely to see Gulf Arab
states be happy with a situation where
the outcome is that Iran is still
effectively controlling the straits
here. It would be actually probably the
worst-case scenario for them.
And Jumana, talk to us then about the
significance and the incident, which I
believe took place just after midnight
your time, of this
uh Kuwaiti tanker just off Dubai, and
whether that represents, I guess in some
ways, Iran's hold on the oil story
specifically.
Absolutely, David. And this is a a
really significant development as well,
because it is a reminder once again that
Iran is not only effectively controlling
who passes through the strait, but also
jeopardizing and harassing
vessels who they deem are not from
friendly nations, what they would say
are hostile nations. In the past couple
of days, they've been attacking Kuwait
very, very hard. It's gone under the
radar, but they hit a desalination
plants yesterday uh called limit caused
limited disruption. And then overnight,
uh what we understand is they also
targeted a vessel that was laden with
crude oil. So it actually had oil on it
uh off the coast of Dubai. Now, the
Dubai authorities, a short while ago,
this is a couple of minutes ago, said
that they had managed to successfully
extinguish the fire at KPC, which is the
state-owned oil company, have
actually said that, you know,
the the the vessel was set ablaze and at
this point we don't understand how much
of an oil spill this might result in,
which could be key and crucial
environmental point to consider as well
in the coming days. So, we don't have
full information on that. But, the point
is, it's just another reminder of the
risks that are being posed to vessels,
to to tankers that want to transit the
straits and in many in most situations
have been unsuccessful. The only ones
that are managing to get through are
either Iranian allied or have paid a fee
to the Iranians to get through.
Jimena, thank you so much. Jimena
Brachetti there in Dubai for us,
Horizons Middle East and Africa anchor,
with the latest on those two stories
that markets are really trying to find
mental car about mental space to balance
it, really which one to place more
weight on.
Matt Gerken is with us now, chief
geopolitical strategist at BCA Research.
He actually thinks Iran's targeting that
Jimena just pointing out there of
shipping is actually the key signal to
watch out for rather than the rhetoric
coming out of the the White House. Matt,
a pleasure and thank you by the way,
sir, for for for joining us. Good
morning from the Asia Pacific. Why focus
on Iran and not so much on the White
House?
Well, thanks very much to both of you.
Obviously, President Trump is still
trying to balance domestic politics and
the election with this military
operation, and so that reduces his
leverage in the short term. You know,
over the long run, the US has the
capability, along with its allies, to
seize back control of this chokehold
geographically and to clear
passage, free passage for ships and
tankers.
But, in the near term, the president is
sort of trying to do a diplomatic
solution or trying to avoid escalating
the economic shock that's going to
ramify back on on him and his ruling
party.
But what happened I mean if the US does
pull out of this and and that
essentially does leave Iran
to keep on having this tight grip on the
Strait of Hormuz.
I mean what would it take now to really
reopen this waterway now?
Well, see that's the thing is so the
Kuwait
tanker that was just struck off Dubai
which you all have been talking about,
that's the real critical signal cuz
remember that it's now been a week since
President Trump sort of pivoted and
started trying to move toward
negotiations. He's given several
ultimatums. He's extended the deadline.
And the question was would the Iranians
retaliate or would they reciprocate? Now
what it looks like they've done is
retaliated and so it will it will
drastically reduce the market's
confidence in the ability of the
president to do a diplomatic solution.
So if he actually and I'm not sure that
I believe this report that's going
around saying, you know, that he would
pull out without clearing the strait.
But let's say he did, that means he's
putting the onus on Iran and Iran would
then look like they're the you know,
they're they're the bad guy because
they're the one attacking shipping. But
if they continue to attack shipping,
well that would impede the oil flow and
push up the oil price and he'd have to
re-intervene. And so it's it's just not
a very credible report. The only thing
you could have is maybe both sides are
just winking at each other and the
Iranians stop attacking ships
while the president stops the assault
and that would effectively be
backroom negotiation.
So what is the
So what what is the likely
off ramp? I mean and is it still one off
ramp or I think your point can we I
don't know, can we disentangle the two
now, the
the global energy story and the actual
political strat political objectives
that they had originally between Israel,
the US, and Iran.
Right. So, if you're looking for like an
end game, the United States is
definitely going to assert control over
the waterway and free passage. And it
has the capability of doing that. And
again, with allies in particular, it
would ultimately be able to do that. The
question is, can it do it without such
an extensive energy shock and economic
shock that we end up with a really
negative global economy and instability,
you know? And And obviously, that's not
That's not part of the objective. So,
there can be a sort of tacit agreement
for the US to call off the assault. And
then if the Iranians stop attacking
shipping, then that may be a temporary
solution. But of course, ultimately, the
US also wants to prevent Iran from
getting a nuclear weapon. And one key
demand that they will continue to make
is that that at least that they find the
highly enriched uranium that is
unaccounted for. And the Iranians may
not give that up. And so, the fighting
could then escalate later, particularly
after the election when the US doesn't
care as much about the oil price.
Mhm. The
The news this week, Matt, was the
Houthis have entered into this conflict.
And that, you know, the Red Sea is now
at risk of of seeing what we're seeing
the Strait of Hormuz. Do you see that?
Do you see this that this this next
chokehold is going to be at the Red Sea?
I don't think that'll be the important
one, but yes, it could definitely
escalate and you could have some ships
struck there and that would That would
certainly add to the sense of panic in
the markets. But investors should stay
focused on Hormuz. That's what really
matters in terms of volume. And that's
where you don't have alternate entry and
exit routes. So, that's the true
bottleneck. With the Red Sea, you can
always go around Africa. There's
multiple enter entries and exits. So,
also the Houthis just don't have the
same capability. And countries have been
dealing with the Houthis for a while.
So, it's sort of a sideshow. It It could
add to some of the negative sentiment,
but really what we need to see is Iran
and the US and Israel stop targeting
critical shipping and energy
infrastructure. And if that's happening,
even if they're still hitting each
other's military bases or things, the
market will tend to look through it if
they think that there's that silent
agreement to allow oil to reach the
global markets.
Uh there's a massive ground force that
is US ground force that is building in
that part of the world. Just lay out
what you think we should be expecting in
as far as that specific card is
concerned.
Yeah, generally there's zero chance that
the US is going to invade in a
large-scale way. This is not a ground
operation to hold territory for a long
time in Iran.
Um you could use special forces. And if
you have the intelligence and the
confidence that you could seize the
highly enriched uranium, then that would
be a very clear use of special forces,
although also extremely risky.
Um
but the other thing you could do is
maybe you could provide better targeting
for US forces, particularly with regard
to the drone
uh making capabilities in the in the
drone launch sites. Uh because that's a
tricky thing, and as we just saw, this
Kuwait uh tanker was hit by a drone.
Drones are hard to stop. Um but you're
not talking about the number, you know,
5 to 15,000 forces or Marine
Expeditionary Units. These are not units
that are designed to take and hold
territory for a long time, and they're
not large enough uh to do that against,
you know, Iranian armed forces. So, and
then finally, like with Kharg Island,
you hear people talk about that. Well,
that's sort of like going for the
jugular vein of the regime. You would be
cutting off its oil revenue, but you
could bomb Kharg Island if that was your
intention. You'd massively escalate the
conflict, and and they would retaliate
against energy infrastructure, but you
don't necessarily need to put boots on
the ground for that mission. So, so I
think it'll be selective and surgical
and it'll be special forces if it
happens.
And do you think Matt if if that is the
case is
is the US/Israel
are they any closer to the I guess the
broad objectives of either or both
regime change
or deterring Iran from pursuing nuclear
weapons which after this I can't imagine
how Iran wouldn't be tempted at having
those as a deterrent.
Yeah, it's tricky. And you know, they
they they have they have been pursuing
nuclear weapons. It's obviously it's
debatable, but they had a very highly
enriched uranium stockpile that they'd
been developing and they'd been
developing ballistic missiles. So, you
know, you can go figure on that one, but
that the Operation Midnight Hammer
really set back their nuclear program
and now they've been also punished
severely. So, the idea is that they've
been set back and it could be that the
US and Israel could have to pursue
similar operations in the future if they
keep returning to an attempt to build
nuclear weapons. Um but there would also
remember their economy has collapsed and
they have and will continue to have
enormous social unrest. So, it's not
clear that the regime will pursue the
same strategy going forward and in the
end as I'm saying the US and its allies
will be able to take Hormuz back. The
only question is whether they can do it
without you know, a global major global
slowdown or recession and it's looking
unfortunately on that front. I mean, I
think the markets are still in for a a
rude awakening as to the as to the full
economic ramifications here.
Yeah, what what does that mean for oil
prices then Matt? Do you think that you
know, 100 I mean, I hear 140, I hear 200
if this keeps going on and this is a
prolonged sort of conflict. Will we ever
get back to kind of sub 100 oil?
Yeah. Well, you know, we so we have to
think in scenarios here. Right now, the
president offered an off-ramp and a
and the Iranians did exactly what they
were, you know, threatening to do and
and not supposed to do, which was they
attacked an oil tanker. So, right now I
think we're going to go back up to 120.
Uh and we could even have a melt-up
phase if this is not resolved over the
next 2 weeks.
Um you know, and that a melt-up phase
could be really hyperbolic. I mean, you
could end up with oil going up to 150,
180, you know, but but at that point
you're killing global demand and it's
going to end up coming right back down
as global consumption is damaged and the
global economy contracts. And so,
uh what the best-case scenario here is
you end up in negotiations, but then
you're still got an uncomfortably high
level around 100 as everyone hoards oil
trying to make sure they have a
stockpile in case fighting reemerges.
Matt, it's great to have you. Thank you.
Matt Dortken there, chief geopolitical
strategist at BCA Research. Well, plenty
more to come. This is Bloomberg.
Let's take a look at shares of CanSino
Biologics, the vaccine maker in China
here today. We're just slightly lower by
about a third of 1%. Earnings did come
out. The company has swung back into the
black for the full year, but its net
income during the period came in below
analyst estimates here. Joining us
exclusively from Tianjin now is the
company's chairman and CEO, Xuefeng Yu.
Dr. Yu, thank you so much for joining
us. Uh before I get to the earning side
of things, I wanted to get your take on
on what's going on in the Middle East. I
know I know the company has been uh you
know, has signed deals to commercialize
vaccines uh in the part of the Gulf
nations like Saudi Arabia, UAE to really
localize production there. Can you tell
us give us an update on where where
those plans are?
Yes, certainly, what happened in the
Middle East is a concern for everybody.
Uh well, we are the vaccine company. We
uh provide uh healthcare, you know, uh
solutions for the region. And uh we so
far the
the business is still going on as we
expected. And uh I hope the what
happened in the Middle East will not
interrupt what the people needed for the
healthcare product, like vaccines.
Okay. Dr. Yu, does it suffice to say
no impact, no change of plans currently
for you guys, and no direct or at least
materially in- material indirect impact
to the company, just to close that loop?
No, we are moving forward as we
expected. Yeah.
Okay. Let's talk about plans then. So,
you are you
Let's tell us how satisfied are you with
the results from from full year of last
year?
Well, we delivered our promise as we
expected. You know, we promised last
year we uh wants to achieve break-even
status for our uh you know, uh
financial readout. And the end of the
year, we actually achieved a uh
small amount of profit. Uh which uh
considering the challenge environment in
Chinese vaccine market, given the birth
rate continued decline, and also the
economic challenges, I think we're happy
with what we have uh achieved.
Especially our leading product, MenACWY,
which is the pneumococcal uh
meningococcal conjugate quadrivalent
conjugate vaccine. Uh we have delivered
a solid revenue growth on this product.
Uh I'm happy to see in the third year we
actually achieved a billion yuan
renminbi
uh revenue on this single product.
Mhm.
Yeah, I mean, breaking even in 2025
certainly is a milestone, Dr. Yu, but
you know, the broader vaccine industry
in in China seems to have been
struggling. You talk about vaccine
prices have been on the decline.
Industry associations have been warning
about involution
on that front. Does that change at all
your strategy and and what sort of
vaccines you develop?
Well, in our business there's always
challenges. We see the birth rate that I
just mentioned. The birth rate is coming
down and overall new birth cohort is
only,
you know, 8 million some numbers.
However, we
well, the government also
try to cut the the price or due to
competition. However,
I think we have to see the price side.
If we read the recent the 15th of 5-year
plan,
we actually can see the government
promote the old age
health care
and also disease prevention. We can
actually see the
distribution of vaccine coming to the
community clinics. This has been
kind of a model system tested in the few
provinces in the past few years.
Now we see it become a you know,
national policy. I think if we look at
the price side, we certainly see the
potential expanded market and the the
the value of vaccine will be you know,
realized for old ages, especially
dealing with the aging population in
China.
Could you tell us more about that, Dr.
Yu, the specific opportunities in as far
as, you know, vaccines
that you make or that you're probably
looking now to explore because of that
longer term objective of the government.
Just I guess let's look beyond Let's
look beyond the next year or two. How
does that look to you?
Well, I think CanSino is positioned well
in the
like all ages you know disease
prevention. If you look at the our
recent
extended our licensure
you know indication to from Asia to 4 to
6 years old and our clinical data for
7 to 59 year old already complete the
clinical trials and we are compiling
data submit to the relevant agencies
very soon and we certainly develop
vaccines for the old ages and this will
also apply to our pneumococcal conjugate
vaccine of the fear toners component
pertussis vaccine. We have already
obtained the
what do you call the these
accelerated review for our pediatric
indication for the fear toners component
pertussis and we also complete our 4 to
6 years old
booster dose and
others
indication is underway. So I think if we
look at our pipeline we are aiming for
provide protection for old ages.
If we look at the Chinese policy in the
past our EPI program in the past
primarily focus on the infant to up to 6
years old but with the new
government announcement already the the
5-year plan we certainly can see
the government is looking into the old
population aging society how we can
provide better prevention
for disease for the old ages. So, that's
why we can see this policy is changing
gear towards old age
coverage. I think this provide a great
opportunity for vaccine industry.
If we position our
you know product well, we can provide
much broader protection to everybody.
Dr. Yu, as always, thank you
for for speaking with us. We always
appreciate of course you taking the time
to do so. Dr. Shifeng Yu there, chairman
and CEO of CanSino Biologics.
Yeah, just talking us through of course
some of the opportunities that just
beyond the next 12 months
presents. Pretty strange to go from
vaccines to booze, but here we are with
Moutai on the up on the back of that
price hike first one in 3 years. More in
the markets just ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are heading to that lunch break in just
a moment. And yeah, looks like a little
bit better here. We're actually flat now
when it comes to Nikkei 225. Topix
actually catching a bid here this
morning. Not much movement from dollar
yen after of course the the the the
rhetoric that we heard from officials
yesterday here. So, we're still sub 160.
But keep in mind, we do have a 2-year
bond sale later on today. And given just
the pressure for the BOJ to hike in the
face of this energy price hike, that
certainly going to be a key question of
what demand's going to look like here
today. Okay. Yeah, watch out for that.
Markets are have been all over the place
this morning. We gapped lower
substantially at the open of some of the
markets that have been running very
early. And then once most markets had
opened up, we were basically trading on
fairly good news and have since actually
gone back the opposite way, which is
which is down. Let's call things. We're
down just ever so slightly on the
benchmark. US futures though as you can
see are still holding on to gains, so
it's still more of the positive side of
the story that
investors are latching on to right now.
And I think the best read of this would
be the bottom row, the Bloomberg Asia
Dollar Index. What that color
effectively shows you is
I guess the mood of mood of the moment
across these markets. Okay, let's let's
bring in the Anting too, our Asia
equities managing
editor with with us out of Singapore.
They've been following
your team has been following the
gyrations of what's been taking place
this morning.
Are we on better footing now than at the
open? Leanting is my first question.
Yeah, I think the WSJ story definitely
gave the market a positive boost, but we
have heard since plenty of investors a
warning that this kind of positivity may
be quite short-lived.
We've seen such episodes many times
before. I think overall we, you know, it
is probably better situation than
Trump's rhetoric about obliteration last
night we heard
regarding Iran, but still the picture is
getting more and more murky in terms of
imagining how this Iran war could be
ended in a very clear fashion and how we
can quickly restore to the energy flow
situation that we the world was before
this war.
So yeah, I think a lot of sort of
caution still very much in play here.
And one thing that is really playing out
today was also the the semiconductor
sector. That was, you know, the engine
that was underpinning Asia's
outperformance leading up to the war. So
I think just
a variety of factors weighing on that
sector including of course higher rates
and potentially slower growth, but also,
you know, the month end flows. That
could also mean, you know, people are
really taking profit again very
violently on a sector that has been
performing so well. So we'll really need
to see what kind of sentiment was maybe
getting more of a clear picture at the
beginning of next month about this AI
sector.
Yeah, and I think Korea is a clear
example of that, right? That it it
became one of the investor favorites to
one of the worst performing markets out
there this month. As we wrap up this
crazy March madness of of this few weeks
Yanting, I mean, we're talking about 11
trillion dollars
uh of value of global stocks have wiped
out in just 1 month alone. What are
people saying to you now about what the
next few weeks are going to bring?
I think people are still very much
cautious, right? As I mentioned, it is
really hard to just abruptly end the war
with all parties agreeing on a deal. And
people are sort of thinking, you know,
how do we avoid sharp downside, but also
start to position for a potential
upside? And that timing is really
difficult, right? You don't want to
position too early, then you suffer more
losses. But at the same time, you also
want to position for some sharp upside
just because it could easily happen with
some kind of strong rhetoric coming from
uh Trump. So, that is the kind of
balancing act that a lot of investors
are sort of a game planning right now.
Um and of course, you know, China
continues to be an area of focus. This
month, China did have its resilience
outperforming global stocks by the most
since 2025 in August 2025, I should say.
Uh so, you know, that kind of resilience
may still play out just because more and
more sell-side and buy-side are weighing
in to to have the same call uh that we
saw uh in the last uh week or so. BNP
and Goldman both talking about how
people should be cautiously adding more
to to the China position. And the China
story is getting a little bit more
interesting. One data point I wanted to
mention was that uh even before the war,
global long-only active uh fund managers
were actually adding positions in China.
Remember, we had a long period of
underweighting um sort of stance uh held
by global fund managers leading up to
sort of February this year and in
February finally we saw kind of that
positioning turning neutral for the
first time since 2022. So we did see
some kind of gradual warming up to
Chinese assets even before the war and
the war obviously has added to the
appeal of Chinese assets.
And it's really taken away from a market
like Korea which you know on up days
seems to be relatively underperforming
on down days it's really to the
downside.
Uh you guys have a really good piece in
Korea today. Where does this leave Korea
going into the second quarter now?
Yeah the Korea story is getting really
murky right? I think this this month
we're seeing 17% also sell off in in
Korea. Again the AI story is getting a
bit weaker or people are turning more
sour on the story. As I mentioned there
is just a variety of factors weighing on
the sector and overnight the big sell
off we saw in the likes of Nvidia and
Micron really show that people have
decided decisively turned the negative
on this Korea story because also Korea
uh is one of the most exposed countries
to the shutdown of the Strait of Hormuz.
So going forward we've heard very few
people talking about a buy the dip or
adding positions at this very moment and
some people have already said that they
are waiting to see the clear the picture
to be more clear maybe towards the end
of this year or even next year before
they rethink or before they think of
buying again Korean assets.
And Ting thank you Ting Ting to their
managing editor for Asian equities
joining us out of Singapore this morning
and coming up we have our exclusive
conversation with 01.ai
CEO Kaifu Lee on what he's seeing in the
Chinese AI space amid this open claw
frenzy and of course we can talk a
little bit more about the sell off we
saw uh here in Asia and the US
overnight. This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back to some corporate news this
morning. Chinese property giant Country
Garden returned to profit in 2025. The
company has reported net income for the
full year of nearly $472 million
compared with a loss of $4.7 billion a
year earlier. Country Garden has been at
the center of China's property slump and
says it's been in a no man's land of
complexity and uncertainty as it
restructures.
Blackstone is said to be launching its
first hedge fund for affluent
individuals intensifying a push to
attract professionals with disposable
income. Sources say the multi-strategy
hedge fund plans to start trading this
year open to clients with at least $5
million of investments. Alternative
asset managers have been searching for
sources of capital beyond traditional
institutional backers.
OpenAI's initiative to let companies
launch mini apps within ChatGPT is off
to a sluggish start with app makers
setting a tedious app approval process
and limited functionality. The partner
companies are hesitant to hand off
customer relationships and payments to
OpenAI and many apps require users to
leave the chatbot to complete a
purchase. The move announced last year
looked to be a key step towards OpenAI
turning ChatGPT into an all-in-one
platform. Okay, let's talk about this
new disruption of what was previously,
as recently as two three weeks ago, the
disruption that was causing this ruckus
across these markets, right? So you have
this massive sell-off in software and
memory in fact overnight.
Um Micron got absolutely tossed out
window. You're seeing that play out
across the Asia-Pacific in Korea, which
seems to be moving along the lines of
that story more than what's happening.
Of course, Iran is not helping, but it
is also seeing some downside right now.
And a lot of that also has to do with
markets are trying to figure out whether
this new announcement from Google
um actually then displaces what was
formerly the darling, which was HBM,
right? And do we have to go back now to
I think it's flash, if I'm not mistaken.
Anyway, my memory's not serving me
correctly here.
Belle is with us here to help refresh
uh where our because this is an
ever-changing It is an ever-changing
story, and actually on the topic of
memory, it's really at the center of it
as well. Uh but it has been I To your
point, I think people are just really
trying to wrap their heads around this
new Turbo quantum that's been released
by Google, and some people are comparing
it really to the deep sig moment of last
year, even though it's it's it has just
been released or publicized. Actually,
it was released at the end of last year,
but it's starting to pick up a lot of
interest in the last week or so. But it
could be a significant research
breakthrough, and
the issue just in AI generally and and
and how LLMs
are deployed essentially is that memory
becomes quite a significant bottleneck
because what you're asking these LLMs to
do is to have a lot of recall
functionality. So, you want to have an
in-depth conversation, you want it to
analyze lots of documents, or you want
it to remember everything about what
you've spoken about previously, and that
takes a lot of memory. What Turbo
quantum is saying is that we can reduce
the amount of memory that's required by
a factor of six, and we can also give
you the same product as you had before.
So, as in the performance I'm talking
about here. So,
yes, initially the market was very much
focused on does that drive down demand
potentially for HBM? Now, overnight it's
a changing assessment. People are a lot
more focused on the flash side of it,
which is is essentially the the the
high-capacity storage that flash NAND or
NAND flash does actually provide for it.
HBM, they're saying maybe it still is
really critical just because you've got
that raw processing speed that's
required for AI training and inference.
Turbo quantum is only focused on the
inference side of the AI story, but
regardless, there are a lot of technical
details. What I will say is that
you saw really overnight it was the
flash story that got hit in particular.
And actually, I think you're seeing that
kind of reflected or we have been seeing
it reflected in the session so far even
though I take a look at those moves
here. You're under pressure, you're not
under pressure to the extent of what we
saw on Wall Street.
>> Mhm.
There's concerns though within the
memory chip space of now
excess capacity.
Um tell us a little more about, you
know, who's the most vulnerable right
now.
Yeah, excess capacity is is certainly
going to be an interesting one. I think
uh
it really comes down to, I guess,
questions really around, I guess, the
the capac- capacity of of some of the
Chinese makers in this space. Uh we have
seen in terms of of the types of memory
foundries, uh you know, obviously
different capabilities of each and and
to yeah,
the good point on that one. But I will
say as well, I mean, there's been a lot
of questions around
you know, demand that we're seeing for
certain stocks as well in Asia and and
Kioxia in Japan is of course been one of
the most notable uh given you've seen a
huge amount of turnover in that stock as
as well.
All right, Bell. Thank you. Our Asia
tech correspondent Annabelle Droulers
there. I just want to bring you latest
when it comes to what we're hearing from
the Middle East. So, uh
this is according to Tasnim. So, they
are now
uh reporting that there's power outage
hits the east of Tehran following
explosions. So,
uh that is sort of what we're hearing
right now of what we're seeing near Iran
east of the country there. Um power
outages and the like. We're not getting
too much more beyond that just that
headline here right now.
Yeah.
Once we have
more information, uh we will bring it to
you, but you're right. But, what is
clear is that things are still happening
despite the
rhetoric that you're getting publicly
um from some of these reports. The
journal, of course, which was key really
uh to this market reversal a few hours
back is also something to consider.
Uh but, yes. Uh we will have more in
this once we have more information on
this a bit later on. Okay. Um we will
just take a short break for now, and
then we will just update you guys in
many things happening as far as the oil
and macro story is concerned. We had
some updates coming throughout of the
Philippines. We'll get to that all on
the other side of this break.
Um but, yeah. In the meantime, we
markets are actually on better footing
uh compared to the start of the day.
Lots more ahead.
All right. More on the inflation story.
An update out of arguably one of the
worst-hit economies, which is the
Philippines. The central bank on the
inflation front that this doesn't even
get you into the demand side of the
story.
Uh the last reading for Feb came in at
2.4%. So, it was actually on the up, as
you can see there, which um had come
substantially down from the high days of
I think 2021-22.
This latest month-ahead
projection, which came in I would say
about an hour back,
suddenly puts the inflation print back
above not just above the three handle,
right? The upper end of this projection
takes you back
if I'm not mistaken, more than 12 months
back to 3.9%. So, this is a full if
indeed that comes in at the upper end
of that conversation, now takes us to
about a
percentage point and a half above an
already climbing inflation print. But I
guess this scratches the surface. I
think it's the the point that Stockton
was making earlier on. It's actually a
good thing if you only if if it's only
inflation that's the problem, right? But
some some economies
uh don't even have the choice, don't
even have the access to the supply
>> Yeah. on things like oil. And I think
the Philippines is one of clear example.
I think they said that in terms of
stockpiles they have what? 45
>> Yeah. or less. Or less now. Um certainly
they are the more vulnerable side of
things here. Um and really what we heard
from I remember Jim McCormick from City
was that, you know, this whole
stagflation sort of scenario is
something that you really got to maybe a
few weeks ago was not a distinct
possibility. But you you really have to
think about it now. Um and you you you
talk about the trajectory of of prices,
right? I mean you've been charting this
as well that, you know, we might be
seeing something that we saw from the
US, right? Um from from just a few
decades ago. So certainly
there there is going to be a lot of
questions about where the inflation
story goes. The job support certainly is
going to be one thing to watch on the US
on Friday as well, right? You know, is
that still going to be the key issue or
are we going to be really tilting more
towards the inflation side of things
here right now? You know, we I this was
one of the scariest charts I've had to
sort of recreate and I hats off to our
colleagues at Functions for the Markets,
right? FFM. And what this shows you in
white is the current oil current US
inflation trajectory from 20
uh from 2015 up until right now, which
is as you can see below the blue line,
which is the trajectory back in the '60s
all the way to that oil spike because of
the oil embargo and that major shock
that we had back in the '70s.
Uh and the question here is is US
inflation mirroring what we had back in
the early '70s. Of course, lots of other
factors are involved this and now, but
it
you You I guess in some ways this
hopefully would not be history repeating
or rhyming itself. I think just to put
it out. Anyway, that's
something to to to look ahead to and
hopefully that doesn't continue in that
trajectory.
>> Yeah, let's get back to the tech story
in the moment here cuz you know, people
still think this whole AI boom can still
continue amidst all this volatility
around oil prices and the like. Um, you
know, certainly the big focus has been
today about as as Bell mentioned the the
the roiling of the memory side of the
trade here and what this means given
that you have some of these new tools
that is maybe requiring less memory to
to kind of a deploy when it comes to
some of these AI ambitions. Our next
guest is the CEO of Agnostic AI platform
01.ai and chairman at venture capital
firm Sinovation Ventures, Kai-Fu Lee
joins us now. Kai-Fu, it's always great
to have you.
It seems like every day the the AI
narrative sort of changes. One day
memory seems to be the hot topic and
then the whole roiling of software. I
mean, where do you think we are now in
this whole AI boom?
Well, the AI is going to be the most
important technology revolution in the
history of humankind. So, these ups and
downs, memory prices, are just little
blips along the way. I wouldn't even
worry about it.
Okay, what about Kai-Fu? Markets are
trying to figure out whether
the displacement or replacement across
sectors, software keeps coming up
recently. Are markets getting this one
correctly or are we getting ahead of
ourselves here in terms of the specific
subsectors where AI might really make
itself felt?
Yeah, it's not exactly
as simply at the displacement. So, the
software engineers who used to take
orders and write specific code to
specification, that is that job category
is going to be largely gone because AI
can do that better. But, the
software architects who can orchestrate
and plan and integrate and understand
data and users, the value of these
people are going to shoot through the
roof. So, at 01.ai,
we we are really building an incredible
software team that has the ability to do
critical thinking, large project
management, architecture. So, our
software engineers are getting 10x uh
productivity than they were before. And
we'd love to
add more people. So, I think the skill
sets have shifted. It's kind of like
people who used to draw
pictures for marketing brochures. That's
going to be largely replaced by AI, but
people who can conceptualize what kind
of pictures will appeal to people and
and represent the company better, their
value will go up. So, it's a giant shift
of skill sets and and
and also talent mix.
Kaifu, you're you're you're in Beijing.
I'm just wondering what you've been
seeing in terms of this phenomenon,
which is open claw, which China has
embraced and welcomed with with open
arms. What are the opportunities and
what do you see are the risks?
Right. So, open claw is very much akin
to Linux. I remember the days when I was
at Microsoft where Microsoft was
dominant and this
Linux came up and it became the the
rallying cry for the
super smart, but sometimes
anti-establishment and also poor
engineers. And eventually Linux took a
giant market share, although Microsoft
still makes the bulk of the money. So, I
think open claw is the same rallying cry
against the American large language
model companies who overcharge for the
products and APIs they have and that was
okay for wealthy companies that have to
buy the best
model, the best API, best software, but
when it comes to the professors,
entrepreneurs, hobbyists, students,
they very much welcome using this new
Agentech open technology, which is akin
to open source, akin to Linux. So, it is
a great fit for the non-elite, top-tier,
market-dominant players and that means
a lot of the
middle-class, smaller, younger people
worldwide and China is full of them. So,
I would say the combination of
open-source models and open claw
gives China a great opportunity to reach
users worldwide because the Chinese
models are cheaper and Chinese apps can
be built on this open architecture. So,
it's bound to take off. Now, that said,
it does have a lot of security flaws and
issues and imperfections. It's new, so
it will get fixed over time.
Kaifui, big trends that I'll put this
together with, of course, which is
somewhat related, of course, that the
pick-up in token exports, for example,
and the build-out of Chinese AI
infrastructure to the world. How does
that affect how you think about what you
guys are doing?
What's cooking in your kitchen?
Yeah, 01.ai is
singularly focused on building
enterprise solutions. So, this very much
follow follows the Chinese State Council
direction that AI plus, which is helping
traditional industries, is going to be
the most important part in China. And we
actually do that in China and worldwide
and our model is building a platform
that makes it very easy to build not any
application, but mission-critical
applications, applications that change
move the needle on the bottom line. So,
we're focused on building applications
for large enterprises that are
making a big difference in the company.
For example,
helping to improve the revenue, the
profits, speed speed of execution, time
to market, or letting the CEO see a full
view of the company and make smarter
decisions. Yeah, that's what we focus on
today.
Kaifu, I'm afraid we we have to leave it
there. We've been pressed because of all
the breaking news taking place.
Apologies for cutting this short, but
let's do this again, please. Kaifu Lee,
01.ai there, and of course Sinovation
Ventures chairman. We've lots more ahead
here on Bloomberg Television.